That was at the Journal of the American Society, I
mean the American Society... American Medical
Association, in the ophthalmology section.
Uh-huh. And that's where you made your first major
defense in your... Well, yeah, except in the
literature now. I first published in the Journal
of Heredity, you see. But I also published in
the...
American Sideround Production, 1934, somewhere
along in there. That must be the journal, that's
the journal. That's the Journal of Heredity.
Yeah. Yeah, that's March of 33. Yeah. Okay, now
here's the Journal of Ophthalmology, December
35. That's the one that you have there. And then
here's one on the same subject from the Texas State
Journal of Medicine in 37. That's where you were
invited to give the speech. In Fort Worth. Fort
Worth, uh-huh. And there's American Society of
Animal Production, I guess. Well, this is from the
Proceedings of the American Society of Animal
Production. Yeah, that's 34, right? Where'd you
get all this stuff? Well, you must have given those
either to Mr. Colfer or to Ernest Langford, wasn't
it? I gave it to Ernest Langford, yeah. I remember
now he asked me for all that stuff. Mm-hmm. And then
I have... What does that one mean? That's a
clipping from the Eagle in 1960. It is. Uh-huh. And
that's about you and some of your work and somebody
from the University of Cincinnati by the name of
Workany, A-R-K-A-N-Y. Yeah, he also... You see,
when... When this came out, a lot of these other
schools started projects of their own, and he took
up rats. And he tried on other vitamins, I think B1
or something. And so Warneke gave us credit for
starting a lot of tests for other schools like
that.
And he mentioned somewhere in the article, I don't
know who wrote the article, I imagine somebody in
here took it. at school and said something about
that you had letters from a lot of people who either
questioned your results. I only had one who
questioned it. Most scientists won't do that, you
see. Well, most of them, I guess, were
corroborating your work and praising you for it.
Yeah, they were. But you know it doesn't pay to say
something isn't so anymore. No, it really
doesn't. I want to show you Here's a book written
by...
Nutrition and Physical Regeneration by Price,
and he got our work in there, see there? He starts in
there.
One thing about it that they can't take away, A&M
College gets credit for starting this kind of
work. And that's what pleases me, A&M College. I
think a lot of A&M. Well, that means a whole lot more
than you know than me. Well, I think that in your
time, you were talking earlier about some of the
other people who were here, like Dean Pereira and
Dr. Francis and so forth, and I think that Although
I never met them, I had the idea, perhaps, that they
had a lot of same feelings that you did, that they
put the college before themselves. Well, that's
what I'd like to do. Now, there's that exhibit at
Fort Worth there. Oh, this is when you gave us the
speech. Now, if I didn't give Langford one of them,
you can put that in your folder. No, I don't have one
of those.
You want that? Now,
is this the one that, is this the article you got? I
believe it is, yeah. Same one. Right. Yeah.
I'll tell you,
Did you have one of these? No, I do not. I would like
very much to have one of those. Well, you can have
this one. Okay. Now, I've written on, since this
was written,
they awarded me this title of fella. You haven't
got anything on that either. Yeah, I have a
clipping on that, 63. Yeah. Yeah. Uh-huh. That was
the American Society of Animal Science that
awarded you the honorary medal. Yes. Uh-huh. Have
you got about the honorary member of the Saturn
Swirling Club here, the X-ray man? I'll just put it
down there. No. Well, here.
You haven't got one of these, have you? Saturn
Swirling Club? I have some of them. I'm not sure
they have that one. This is a...
was kind of got a little careless and put my name on
there. You must have been one of the early members
of that, were you not? Yes. I forget right now just
exactly when it was started. Now, here's another.
Do you need anything like this? This is a bulletin
we got on cutting seed mills. Well, I was going to
get around to asking you that sooner or later.
Well, you take this one. And then here's one on
fraud investigations in Texas from 1888 to 1957.
You stick that in here. Okay. I think you probably
retired before I came so that I retired in 65. So I
came in 71. You did? I haven't had a chance to write
you a congratulatory letter upon your retirement
as I do now. When people retire now, I write them a
congratulatory letter and I say I'm interested in
any of their papers that they have, like any
bulletins or articles they've written and things
like that. We have some of yours and we'd be happy to
add these others to it. I think I'll give you some of
these letters here. We haven't talked about this
yet, but In putting rations together, there's a
method called Pearson Square. I don't know
whether you ever heard of it or not. No. But Dierman
used it a whole lot. But it's the editing thing
called Pearson Square. Say you wanted to make a 15%
ration and put that in the square, and you're going
to use a grain that has 10% crude protein, and this
is crude protein. And you've got a supplement that
has 60% crude protein like tannocates.
Now, what you do is, for this to work, one of these
corners has got to be smaller than this, and one's
got to be larger than this. Now, how much grain and
supplement do you put together to get this? See,
that's the question. And this method here is
called Pearson Square. Well, this and that's 45.
And this and that's five. So that makes 50, but you
want 100 pounds, say, so you multiply it by two.
This will go in 102. It'll be 90 pounds of grain and
10 pounds of supper. Well, now, how do you know
that'll work? Well, 10% of 90 is nine, and 60% of 10
is six. That's 15, and you've got 100 pounds. So,
now, I modified that for three feet. We just
used... Two feet here. So when I got to teaching,
and I dreamed this up. You've heard of dreams?
Well, I was thinking about it. I tried and tried and
tried to figure out some way to put three feet
together by the Pearson Square. And so one night,
about 2.30 in the morning, that came to me. And I got
up right then, because you may forget those things
if you don't, and tried it out, and it worked like
nobody's business. Now, here's some letters I got
on it. Yeah, this fellow Bostad was the chairman of
the Department of Aluminum at Wisconsin, and
that's what he said about it.
It looks to me as if your modification of the
Pearson square and mixing feeds is an excellent
device for quick and accurate mixing of more than
two feeds. Yeah. I think of it so well that I am
having copies made for you during closure to give
to other members of our department to one or two of
our graduate students. I trust you will publish
this. Now, I thought that was pretty good for a
fellow like Wisconsin. Now, that's another thing
that came out of A&M College. And before I
published on that, I wrote Cornell, and I asked the
dairy department here if they use it in milk
production, taking one fat production of one kind
of milk to another. and change it to another fat
content. But that's only two. So I wrote around to
Derryman. I wrote to everybody I could think of
that would probably be in that field. And nobody
had ever done what we did, you see, on that. And then
I published it. And that's what he wanted me to do
there, you see. Because he didn't know anything
about it either. Who was Pearson? Well, he was a
mathematician way back. I think he's from
England, Carl Pearson. He was the one who figured
out this Pearson Square for two. You see,
pharmacists can use that. They've got two
solutions to mix and use Pearson Square. It's
wonderful. So it's kind of a universally accepted
formula for a mixture of two ingredients. But I
wanted to mix three. How did you work it out? Well,
we'd say,
well I want a ration, but I want 10% alfalfa meal in
my ration. That'd be the third feature. Then how do
I use this formula for that? Well, you have a fat
meal, it's 20% protein. So if you're going to mix
up, we always do this on a 100-pound basis because
then you can go from 100 to a ton or anything. Well,
if you're going to use 10% or 10 pounds, that leaves
90 pounds of these two feeds. So since you're going
to work with 90 pounds, then you can't use this
because this is based on 10 pounds. So you get 9% of
that, then you put 9 there, see? And 9% of this fits
4. And then, 10 pounds of 25, that's 2 pounds of
protein there. And 2 pounds from this leaves 13,
you put in there, see. Alright, then you go to track
it again. That's 41. And this is 4. That's 45. You
want 90. Which is twice this. Come in there. So
times 2 equals 82. Times 2 equals 8. That gives you
90. Now, we've got 82 grain times 10% protein. Go
back to this. That gives you 8.2. You've got 10
pounds of alfalfa times 20% protein. That's 2.
You've got 8 pounds of tankage times 6% protein.
That's 4.8. Now this is a hundred and ten, five,
seven, fifteen. Yeah, and that's what this fellow
here liked. He said, it is, it's really good. If I
got a fellow named Knox in there from Mexico, read
what he said about it. I'm ready to thank you for
sending us a copy of A Modification of the Parsons
Square and Making Fees. I've shown it to the
professors, to Professors Neal and Watkins, and
they've made copies for them. We all agree that it
is an ingenious use of the method and should be
quite helpful in calculating formula where
definite percentages are required. See, you can
use it for four or five fees either. All you have to
do is subtract that from the other. Now, why didn't
somebody do that before I come along? Heck, you
know, I'm not very smart. But I stumbled on that,
but I dreamed it. I'd been thinking about it so
hard, you know, trying to help these boys. And... I
was amazed that I couldn't find anybody that had
ever done that before. Well, I would have thought,
like you, that perhaps some of the feed companies
would have put somebody on to that earlier. Yes. I
was surprised at that, too. Now, there's one feed
company man in there named Sotolo. He used to be
with Armoring Company. Is that Satola? Yeah,
that's Satola. Read his letter now. He went away
into...
Would those letters be more valuable to the
archives than they would to me? I don't need them.
Of course, a fellow can make copies of them. Well, I
think they would be very nice to have in the
archives.
We'd be pleased to have them.
Maybe I ought to make copies of them and then send
them to you. Okay. Another question that comes to
mind I'd like to ask you. With all of the research
and so forth that you have done in swine, how much
were you involved in the evolution of the swine
short course? Well,
of course, the swine short course... had us
beginning from the Texas Swine Breeders
Association in connection with the head of the
department. And they thought it'd be a good idea to
have a swine short course. And I think that later
developed, whereas they have some of these
courses out in the state. I know the Texas Swine
Breeders Association, they don't call it that
anymore. I think they call it Texas Pork Producers
Association.
Porkus, P-O-R-C-U-S is a Latin word meaning pig.
But I don't know why they changed it from Texas
Swine Breeders to Texas Pork Producers. I guess
they thought pork was a little nicer name than
swine.
But the Texas Swine Breeders Association was
organized in 1890, and they used to have two
meetings a year. They called them... for both of
them were so-called educational meeting like
short course. But they had one out in the state and
one here. That made it nice. Sometimes they'd have
one at Plainview, sometimes they'd have one at San
Antonio, and the other one always here. And it made
it real nice for the swine breeders. When they had
it out in the state, they could visit farms, hog
farms and stuff like that, and they could also have
related
industries like lumber yards, hardware stores,
feed companies, and the press come to those
meetings to see and they were all interested. So
all I did, I didn't do anything, all I did is they put
me on the program, I wrote a paper. Well, that was in
itself a substantial contribution considering
the amount of work you had already done in swine
research. That's what I want to say, I guess. Well,
swine is made up of five sections. Breeding,
feeding, sanitation and disease, marketing, and
general management. And your research can enter
any one of those areas. And I always thought when a
fellow asked me a question that I couldn't, didn't
know the answer of or couldn't go to the literature
and find the answer, that that's the problem. And
that's how we get some of our problems to do all the
research. If we can get the answer out of the
literature, the course on that cotton seed meal, I
could get the answer out of there, but it wasn't the
right answer, you see. Or it wasn't a satisfactory
answer. Well, after I'd gone through the
literature and found out that they made those
statements on 30% coccineal ration, somehow I
know that hit me that that shouldn't be that way or
something and got me to thinking a little bit on it.
And another thing we did that I think is quite vital
to research is... I hadn't been here too long,
about four years, until I quit putting, usually
when they try out a ration, they put ten pigs in this
lot and ten pigs in that lot and so on, and feed them
as a group. Well, I finally decided after four or
five years that you didn't know how much feed each
pig was eating. So I talked to the director and gave
us enough money to build some individual feeding
pens. We built 80 individual feeding pens out of
100. at the old station. And we fed our pigs
individually. You take on this gospel, if you
don't feed them individually, you don't know how
much gospel killed a pig or you didn't know how much
feed he ate. And that, I think, is one of our
contributions to research. And we did another
thing. When I came here, the
government put out a bulletin on how to conduct
research with animals. And they had you to weigh
them three days at the beginning and three days at
the end of your test to get the initial weight and
final weight. Well I did that for about from 25 to 30
some odd and decided I wasn't getting anywhere
there. It looks to me like one weight was just as
good because three weights That second weight,
you've already handled the pig some. He may have
interfered with his gain or something. Third
weight, he interfered with his gain. And it wasn't
a true weight. And they said to take the second
weight, the middle weight, to start your test on.
Well, then the next day, if a pig had been getting
corn, you put him on oats, and he wasn't used to
eating oats. He's not going to eat what he should.
He's not going to gain so much. So I just decided
we'd get a test going. to see if it paid to weigh
three days or over one day. And we published that,
too. And I don't know whether you got a copy of that
or not. One-day weight against three-day
weights, we published that in the American
Sidewound Production. And then that was 10 years
later. We published in 1936. In 1946,
a guy up at Illinois decided try to verify our work
or disprove it or something. And he came to the same
conclusions. That one day wait would give you just
as good a reliable data as three days. Well, that
saved a lot of work. Yeah. With that, together with
individual feeding, I think it sure helps us out on
research. I would imagine that the amount of work
that you and other people working with you did must
have done, had a substantial effect on the economy
of Texas. There's a pretty good amount of pork
production in Texas, I would think. Well, there
was at that time. You know, when I came here, we had
500,000 farms in Texas. Now they tell me they have
about 180,000. Less farms. Well uh those 500,000
farms each one of them on the average killed about
two pigs a year so there's the million pigs that
they killed every year just for farm use. Well with
180,000 farms that that's a substantial decrease
but uh yeah of course the old pig he got the name
mortgage lifter you know because he supposed to
pay for a lot of mortgage forms. That's what they
call it, mortgage lifting. I hadn't heard that
before. Corn belt, yeah. Yeah, he's known as the
mortgage lifter.
But if you can reduce the cost of the rations by
proper use of cotton seed meal, you have improved
the profit margin. And by... use of and also you of
course not only you reduced the cost of the rations
but you increase the quantity of them that reach
maturity and also the same thing by introduction
of vitamin A you improve the survival rate or
decrease the anytime you can help a product that's
produced on the farm uh It's market value, and
you're helping a lot of other industries, too,
that pay taxes. Processors, truckers.
You mentioned that you had these individual pins
out on the old station. Where was... F&B Station up
here. I don't know whether you ever heard of it or
not. No, F&B Station Road, yeah. Well, it's just
right beyond that. There's still one long
building up there. It's left, they've torn down
most of them. There used to be a silo, they've torn
it down. When did they discontinue the so-called
College Station, Experiment Station? Well,
I think they still have some. They still have some?
Yeah, I think they still have some. I was
uncertain. We have a lot of the Experiment Station
records over in the archives, research project
files. and annual reports of the various
individual stations. Most of the college
stations, what you call college stations, of
course down there, that farm down there at the
river, can end up here. There used to be quite a bit
of work on, most of it was agronomy. You know,
fertilizer testing and variety of crops and stuff
like that. I think they've cut out a lot of that and
taken it down yonder.
We have the annual reports of the various stations
and so on and so forth, and somehow I've got an
impression that the station itself in College
Station has been discontinued, but not entirely.
Yeah, I think that's about right. They probably
shifted it around down there. I think they called
this, I forget what station, they called it FB
station number 10, I think. Yeah, they made a lot of
changes in that regard. They hadn't, the research
is still going on, but it's just different places.
I believe we talked a little bit ago about that you
retired then from teaching and researching in 65.
But you tell me you still have an office here. Are
you still continuing to do some research? Well,
when they made me that, uh, Dr. Butler, head of this
department, said I was still a member of the
Attaway staff. And actually in 1970, they asked me
to take a course, to teach courses. They were short
a faculty member here. And I taught feed and
feeding over there in 1970 for one term. But, uh, I
understand the way the thing is set up. If you're
Professor Emeritus, that they will furnish you a
space to come and read your journals and take care
of your business. Yeah, that's the way I
understand it too. And they gave me a phone and they
were really nice to me. I wasn't expecting that. So
you're not involved in any individual research
projects or anything of that nature anymore. No.
But you do have an office to which you can come.
That's really nice. I presume you have some
secretarial assistance. Yes, she'll write a
letter for me.
We talked a little bit earlier and looked briefly
at an article in which you were made an honorary
fellow of the American Society of Animal Science.
I believe in 1965, at the Swine and Shark Course,
you were awarded the Royal Order of the Silk and
Purse. Yes. I've forgotten about that. What was
that? That was in 1965. 1965. Is that one of those
mentioned in that? No, I don't guess it was. I've
seen that bulletin with my name on the front of it.
Let's see. I have an article here from the Eagle in
1965. Oh, does that tell about that? That tells
about that. Oh, yeah. You got that? Did you get
other awards? Well, what's that up there? I got
that award, that map up yonder. Uh-huh. And then,
of course, these people. That's from the Texas
Swine and the Swine Breeders Association. Up
yonder, yeah. 65, yeah. And then these people made
a sketch of me one time, put it in their magazine,
Mold Breeders Who's Who. Mm-hmm. But, yeah.
I
was
invited to judge the swine at the International
one
time. I thought this was quite an honor.
So
what you did, what your responsibility there was,
you judged the animals first and then the teams
who... No, this wasn't, this doesn't have
anything to do with the team. Uh-huh. See, this is
judging the livestock. Livestock that were there
for show. Yeah. Uh-huh. And, uh... That'll be 152.
See, this livestock, they invite different
judges to judge it, you see. And I was judging the
Duroc Barrels. Duroc Barrels, and this was in
Chicago. Uh-huh. International. Uh-huh. Was
this, let's see, there's a clip in here. It says
1939. That was it. Well, but that was 1938. The show
was in 38.
So that was, I would imagine, it would be quite an
honor to be invited. Yes, up to that time. I don't
know what's happened since. They hadn't come down
to this far to get a judge in Texas. They'd stayed up
yonners most of the places.
When the student stock judging teams go to the
International Livestock Exposition and judge,
what what livestock do they judge? They judge
It's like any judging contest where they have
cattle, sheep, hogs, and horses. Did they judge
the stock that is entered in the show? No, they
don't judge that same stock. The show will go
around, and maybe you're an exhibitor there, and
if you've got an animal that you don't mind them
working on, you'll say, well, you can take my
animal, and they'll get them all together like
that. There's usually four animals in a class.